# ANALYSIS-OF-COVID-DEATH-RATE-IN-ENGLAND.
This coursework provides preliminary assessments COVID-19-related deaths in England's local authorities using population density, household, and health. COVID-19-related deaths that occurred between 2020 and 2022 are included. 

ABSTRACT:
This coursework provides preliminary assessments COVID-19-related deaths in England's local authorities using population density, household, and health. COVID-19-related deaths that occurred between 2020 and 2022 are included. UK-wide By August 12th, the amount of COVID-19 reported cases and fatalities were 313,798 and 46,706, accordingly (70 deaths and 472 case per 100,000 population). Regional differences existed in England in comparison with other countries, with London, the North, and the West being disproportionately impacted (666 and 756 case per 100,000 population, accordingly). 13,618,470 analyzes had been completed in the UK as of August 11th. Male gender, mortality rate (65 years old), and selected groups were all linked to a higher chance of passing away. Since, the start of the epidemic there has been a decrease in the use of initial care, cancer referrals, outpatient/inpatient referrals. Government initiatives to lessen the impact on industry and the economy have been put in place, but the number of people applying for state aid has climbed. The management of a hospital is improved by the analysis of many patients using machine learning and data mining algorithms. Big data technologies and solutions are utilized since it is challenging to analyze, retrieve, manage, and store both structured and unstructured information due to the enormous volume of data that is increasing in all fields. Initially, SARS-CoV-2, the highly contagious source of Covid-19, was identified and screened using a combination of ultrasound scans, entire genotyping, and electron microscopy. There are very few Covid-19 test kits in health care facilities because of the growing number of patients diagnosed each day. As an outcome, a conscience structure must be employed as a quick substitute analysis to prevent Covid-19 from spreading throughout the world.
	A prolonged closure of 42–56 days is preferred to 21–28 days of closure in order to significantly "flatten the curve." Our models only forecast the number of COVID-19 infections, providing policymakers with information about one part of this complex problem. In order to enable data-driven policymaking during a pandemic, finish by discussing the crucial roles of greater testing, trustworthy and transparent data, appropriate uncertainties assessment, accurate analysis of prediction model, reproducible data science methodologies, and tools. From a wide range of rich data sources, massive quantities of big data can be created and gathered. These huge data contain significant knowledge and practical information. For instance, healthcare and epidemiological information about people with viral disorders such the coronavirus disease in 2019 (COVID-19). Data scientists' knowledge gained from these epidemiologic studies helps researchers, epidemiologists, and policy makers better understand the disease, which may motivate them to devise strategies for detecting, containing, and battling it. With an emphasis on the geographic information analytics across various geographic locations, we provide a geographic information science system in this study for analyzing large COVID-19 epidemiological data.

CONCLUSION:
This coursework emphasizes the value and applicability of data mining approaches to the characteristics of the Covid virus outbreaks at high resolution and the mortality rates in the English local authorities. It is important to predict how changes in mobility following the easing of a lockdown will affect the risk that an outbreak will recur locally and to recognize variations in daily/weekly network nodes. The risk of the COVID-19-related mortality rate is also much greater in geographical regions with high proportion of elderly people, especially those who are living in poverty, hence better monitoring and cases follow-up should be assured in these more critical communities. According to mortality trends, more people have been dying in local authorities than of England (normalized for population size).  To comprehend the impacts, as determined by the number of deaths per thousand people, differed so greatly among the various local authority areas in England. 
	The mean death age as in UK is around 80. Many of the fatalities were 80 years of age or older and may have been nearing the end of their lives due to coexisting conditions like cancer, heart disease, and respiratory problems. The 65+ age group accounts for 87percent of all deaths in the UK. Numerous reports indicate that the clinically obese are the ones who are most at risk in the under 65 age group, which accounts for 13% of all deaths. Diabetes, hypertension, and atherosclerosis are included as comorbid conditions in the descriptions of the deceased who were obese. Additionally, the removal of uncertainty, that has been a significant source of stress in the affected community, is a benefit of these explicit instructions. The science of outbreaks is well-established, and it requires that immediate action be taken to separate local clusters and protect the most vulnerable individuals. Thus, it appears to us that the unprecedented and undifferentiated global lockdown that has occurred in many regions has not been founded in sound scientific reasoning based on a calm analysis based on all prior knowledge but has instead fallen victim to hastily constructed models that stoked an environment of fear that was amplified by the media and social media as attention-seeking buyers.
Furthermore, by Comparing the p-values obtained from the various Regression model gives us the clear understanding of the data used. Normalization techniques or correlated factors, which is the statistical measurement of the correlation strength within two variables, have been estimated to explain the stark discrepancies in performance. Following the results of the epidemic in these local authorities and expanding the comparative study that will offer crucial insights to understand and utilize the successful practices to the greatest extent possible. 
